Now what does get started mean now.
Obviously we got all our roots here on the back and to which we can send requests.
And just as we started in the Mongo D.B. sections with implementing the create methods first so that
we can work with places for example.
I now also want to start implementing the connection for creating something specifically for creating
a user.
Why do I want to do that.
Well because on the back end in the end we need a user a user documents so to say to then also connected
to our place because we have this connection set up there and we have all the code for establishing
this connection for example into place as controller in the create place function there when we do create
a new place.
We connect the place to a creator which we get here from our incoming request.
Later we'll changed as a little bit and which we then of course also look up in the database.
So did we really only continue if we do find a user for that provided I.D..
So because we have that user place connection it makes sense to start with creating users because we
need users to create places kind of therefore on the front and of course it's the off page I want to
start on because dear we have our off submit handler which in the end fires whenever we will authenticate.
So whenever we log in or sign up now we'll have to tweak that logic here a little bit because I actually
want to do different things depending on whether we are logging in or signing up.
If we are logging in after all.
I don't want to create a new user.
If we are signing up though I do want to create a new user in both scenarios however I want to send
a HP request.
In one case I just want to send HP request to the logging route and in the average case I want to send
the HDP request to the sign up road.
That's the idea here so therefore let's go back to the front and here to the off page and let's make
sure that here we don't just log in as we're currently doing it but that instead we do send HBP request
for this.
I will first of all convert this function here in a async function with the async keyword so that I
can use a single wait.
This is not a must do.
The alternative is to use promises with then and catch.
But I prefer the async await syntax here.
Now why do I need it at all.
Because we will work with a promise because now instead of console logging any inputs I want to send
the HDP request and we can do that with the fetch API which is provided by browsers in modern JavaScript
as an alternative.
You could also use axes or other third party libraries that make sending HP requests.
Simple.
But here I will use this built in API and now it is fetch.
Function here needs a string a string that points at our back end.
So here I in the end want to point add slash sine upward to be precise at slash API users slash sign
up.
And of course all of that preprinted with our back and host.
Now if I start my back and server here again with NPM start.
And of course you find a snapshot of this latest back and state.
Attached to this lecture you will just need to switch your database credentials if you using my snapshot
and use yours instead.
Then if you run npm install you should be able to run NPM start thereafter and bring up that back and
server and keep in mind that this runs on port five thousand on local host.
So here we want to send a request to ATP local host five thousand slash API slash users slash.
Sign up or slash log in depending on what we want to do.
But we first of all need to create at least one user before we contests signing up I guess.
So let's start with this.
Now this sign up request here if we have a look at our back and routes should be a post request.
So to configure this to be a post request we need to pass in a second argument to fetch and there we
can configure it is request for example we can set the method property to post it now a post request
will be sent.
Now this alone is not enough though.
We also need to set certain headers so we'll add the headers key here and set this to an object so we
can add key value pairs here which will represent the headers that are attached to the outgoing request
in there.
I want to set my content type 2 application Jason.
Without that our back and will not know which kind of data it receives and our body passing an app trace
where we parse the incoming Jason data here will not kick in correctly because it doesn't know it's
getting Jason data so let's set these headers and of course we need to attach some data.
So I want to set a body on this request and this and that's so important.
Always has to be in Jason format.
Now conveniently in the browser we have to Jason object where we can call the string and find method.
And this takes regular javascript data like an array or like an object and it will convert it to Jason.
And here in the end I of course want to submit my my form data I want to add or send the object which
needs to have a name key I email key and a password key why do I need to send these keys.
Well because that is what I'm expecting on the back end.
If we have a look at the user's roots we see we are validating for a name and email and a password and
in the user's controller when we create a new user here in the sign up function we do extract name email
and password.
So we need to provide these three pieces of information here hence here I will add these three pieces
and as a name I will point at former state DOT inputs dot name dot value.
Remember we're having that forum state here which is coming from the use forum hook which manages our
different data pieces when we switch to sign up mode.
We add a name field if we are in log in mode.
We all.
We only have email and password field so now this is managed for us by the Forum hook and they offer
we can extract it here and of course extracting just the name is not enough.
We all the one extract the email value and we want to extract the password value and these values should
be valid.
When we reached the off submit handler because we only make this button here to submit button clickable
if we are if we have a valid form here thanks to this check.
Now one thing is still not correct though we don't always want to sign up when we reach this function.
This function also gets triggered if we are in log in mode.
So actually here we should check if is log in mode is true and if it is true we want to do something
else.
If it's not true.
So if we're in sign up mode then I want to send this request with this adjustment.
We're now making sure we only send a request to the sign up backend or to sign up you are L if we are
in sign up mode now fetch of course returns a promise.
So since I'm using async here here we can add a wait to wait for the response we get back now.
This actually could also fail.
So let's actually wrap this with try catch so I'll grab all this code here and added here and to try
and catch any errors we might be getting and we'll have to do some error handling here later for the
moment.
I will just console lock the error.
Now one important word this will not fail if our back and sends back an error status code so a 400 or
500 status code I'll come back to how we handled those a little bit later.
For now let's just wrap it like this and care about error handling later.
So we got the response and when using the fetch API so does fetch function.
The response itself has generally all the response data but it does not yet have the parsed response
body.
Instead we do parse the response body by calling response start Jason.
If it's in Jason format which it is in our API is case and which is in case of most API is this to returns
a new promise.
So we showed a way to this as well and this will then be our response data.
If you want to call it like this.
So this will be the actual data and a response body.
And if we have a look at our back and we see what's inside.
The response is our created user.
In the end so we got this back.
We got this response data which should be our created user data.
Now for the moment why don't we just console lock this here before we then have a look at what else
we could do one important word about all flogging this should only kick in once all these steps are
done because here we are always a waiting which means that in the end this year isn't a new.
Then block.
So to say after all these steps completed even though it's sort of try catch this will only run does
of log in code will only run once we're done getting the response.
Passing the response and so on so the orders should be correct.
Was that if we NPM start our front end here as well to bring up that fronted server we should be able
to send a sign up request.
So let's see where dad works.
Here is our front end application and for the moment let's click on authenticate switch to sign up and
testers.
Here I entered max test that test com and then some password and click sign up and what we see now is
actually that we get an error.
And this is actually an expected error.
Now what's the problem here.
Let's have a look at that in the next lecture.